---
layout: post
title: "Coconut oil:"
author: Abigail Morris
date: 2017-01-06T22:24:31.000Z
---
Hailed as a panacea for all types of frying, this solid oil’s smoke point is 350 F, so, like its liquid cousin EVOO, choose it for lower-heat cooking. And, mind the distinct coconutty taste.
## Avocado oil:
With a smoke point of 500 to 510 F and a nutty, sweet aroma, it’s ideal for high heat cooking, but it’s costly, making it a poor choice for everyday stirfrys.
##Sesame oil:
This full flavour oil has a 410 F smoke point, so it’s good for medium-high heat frying — but only if you don’t mind the powerful, distinctive flavour and can afford to burn through a lot.
##Peanut oil:
Vilified during the days when the “low-fat” diet was king, peanut oil is a great, all-purpose choice for lubricating the pan. With a smoke point of 450 F, perfect for medium-high heat cooking, it’s teeming with vitamin E, has a mild, earthy flavour that won’t overpower your food and it’s priced just right.
##Hazelnut oil:
High in monounsaturated fats trumpeted by the Mediterranean Diet and a smoke point of 410 to 430 F make this nutty grease good for medium-high heat. But, the bold taste and high price tag keep it firmly in the “flavouring oil” category.
##Grapeseed oil:
This neutral oil’s smoke point is 400 to 420 F, so it’s perfect as an all-purpose medium-high heat frying oil. It may contain a higher than average Omega 6 fat concentration — the kind of fats often found in processed foods, says Baker. But if you limit your fast food and fried products, the small amount of grapeseed oil in your pan won’t tip the healthy balance in your body.
